Welcome back.
How is that exercise?
Does your brain hurt from all this confusing sequence?
Let's actually start off with the recursive function this time, because in this case the recursive
function is actually a lot simpler to think about.
All we would do with our recursive function is to say, Well, the base case is going to say number
or N is going to equal.
Two.
If that's the case, simply return.
Actually, if we look at the sequence, we see that if the index is zero.
The answer is zero.
If the index is one, the answer is one.
And if the index is two, then the answer changes to one.
So instead, our base case can maybe just simply be if PN is less than two.
We're always going to just return whatever the NN is.
So if we say zero, it's going to return zero.
If we say one, it's going to return one.
If we have an index higher than that, well, then we have to do some recursion.
And all we're going to do here is have another return statement and say this function, I know that
this function is really, really long.
We can probably make it shorter to just say fib.
And I notice that we don't need the iterative here.
That will make it a little shorter.
There you go.
Now we're going to say is fib is going to equal N minus one plus the same thing.
And.
Minus two.
Because remember, the sum is always the answer is always the numbers one and two before it.
So we're just adding.
The numbers one and two before our sequence.
And that's it.
If we run this function, let's say a Fibonacci recursive of three and I click run, I get two because
zero one, two, three is two.
Let's do eight, which should give us 21.
I click run or give eight.
I get 21.
Nice.
And if I do zero.
I get zero.
If I do one, I get one.
If I do two, I should get one right here.
Nice and simple.
Well, I don't know about simple, right?
You really have to get comfortable with this before you truly understand what's happening.
But I have a little diagram to help you here.
All we've done is simply this.
If I added seven here, our recursive function is going to get one less than seven and two less than
five.
And then within those functions do the same thing.
One less than six to less than six.
One less than five.
Two less than three.
And it's doing all of these.
All of these.
All of these until we get to fib of one, two.
Where we have our base case that returns that number.
So this becomes one.
This also becomes one.
And then it keeps going, keeps going, keeps returning until we get to fib of seven.
Now, this is a diagram that we're going to get back to.
But you see, we're doing a lot of calculations here.
But simply put, this is all we're doing.
Now I said that the recursive approach is actually simple, simpler than the iterative approach.
Let's have a look at what the iterative approach would look like.
Create an array and there's many ways of doing this.
This is my preferred way, and this array is going to have the initial items of the sequence zero and
one.
And this is going to, first of all, return the array.
And item of MN.
We're creating this array and then grabbing whatever index the user wants.
In our case, if the user requests zero or one, we already have the array prefilled with zero and one
and it's going to return the same.
But we still need to calculate for all the other ones.
That's where we do a for loop and say Let I equal two because we're going to start adding when the index
is 012 to start filling this array.
We'll say I is less than n plus one or we can do equals here if we want.
We'll leave it at that for now and we'll increment it plus.
Plus.
And in this loop, we're going to keep going until we hit the number of index that we're interested
in.
And all we're going to say is array push.
A ray.
I minus two.
I minus one.
Similar to what we did before.
We're just summing the previous two numbers and pushing it to the array.
All right.
Now, let's see if this works.
I'm going to comment out this one and just do the iterative approach.
I get two for three?
What about index of eight?
I get 21.
Perfect.
And then if I do index of zero.
Index of one.
And index of two should be one.
Perfect.
Now, I said that the recursive approach is simpler than the iterative approach.
Now that's my personal opinion.
You might not think that.
You might think that this was quite easy.
But to me, this reads a lot nicer than all this thing that we're doing.
And this is something we're going to get into in the next video where we talk about the tradeoffs between
the iterative and the recursive approaches to these problems and why maybe you're wondering right now,
why would we ever write anything recursive if you find this confusing?
We'll get to that.
But the one thing I want to show you is something that we just learned here that is new to us.
What do you think the big o of these two functions are?
Well in our iterative solution.
The big o is linear time, right?
It's O of RN.
Basically we're just iterating through the loop and minus two times because we're skipping the first
two items.
Which in turn makes it even.
But what about the recursive approach?
Remember the diagram I showed you?
That's a lot more calculations than just the seven, right?
We have a lot of function calls that happen.
In this case, in the recursion solution, it takes what we call exponential time.
The size of the tree exponentially grows when and increases.
If Fibonacci number was eight, we would have this tree as well as an other tree underneath the fib
of eight.
So what is the big o of that?
This is very exciting because we're learning about a new big notation.
We're learning about this one exponential time.
Which can be seen with recursive algorithms that solve a problem of size.
N two to the power of n.
If we go to our big o cheat sheet, this is o two to the power of.
You see how much it increases.
That's pretty bad.
It's bigger than even o of nn square.
The two nested for loops.
Exponential time means every additional element in the Fibonacci sequence.
We get an increase in function calls exponentially.
And here's a fun little trick.
Although this is o of nw the iterative approach this function because its o of two.
To the power of an.
If I run this function, let's say if we do ten.
I get a result if I do 15.
I still get a result.
What if I do 20 here?
All right.
It's starting to get bigger and bigger.
If I do 30.
If I do 40.
Do you see how much longer that took to calculate?
Because our time complexity is increasing more and more.
If I do 43 now.
You'll see that we're waiting and waiting and waiting for the calculation to happen.
And eventually the browser comes up with a calculation as a bonus question.
Think about how many calculations Fibonacci 43 required.
This, although might be more readable, is not an ideal solution.
As you can see, big time complexity is pretty big and this is something that you might get asked in
an interview.
And I know what you're thinking, Andre.
You just taught us about recursion, and it's not even good.
It's slow.
It's confusing.
Why would I ever want to use recursion?
In the next video, I'm going to talk about this trade off.
Why would you ever use recursion over something that is iterative?
Why would any sane person do that?
And as you'll find out, there are some pros and cons and as a matter of fact, a function like this.
Such as Fibonacci sequence and recursion can be made to over MN using something like dynamic programming
and memorization, which we're going to talk about towards the end of this course.
And we're going to get back to this.
But let's finally answer the question in the next video.
Why would you ever use recursion over something iterative?
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.